When we arrive
at the Kingdom Hall for a meeting,
don’t you agree
that we all feel refreshed
the moment we see the smiling faces
of our brothers and sisters?
That’s how I feel.
Sometimes we can even take
our beautiful meeting location for granted.
But did you know
that a lot of work goes into making sure
that our Kingdom Halls are well utilized?
The Worldwide Design/Construction
Department, or WDC,
is tasked with analyzing
our worldwide needs
and providing direction
to Local Design/Construction Departments
on how best to use
our dedicated funds.
As we approach the end
of the present system of things,
Jehovah continues to speed up the work.
We now have
more than 62,000 Kingdom Halls worldwide,
and the demand is still growing.
Jehovah’s blessing
on the Kingdom work is undeniable,
as this could not
have been accomplished otherwise.
Many have been working for years
in support of Kingdom Hall
and Assembly Hall construction projects,
most recently as part
of the Local Design/Construction,
or LDC, program.
This program was implemented
during the 2014 service year
and unifies the approach
for construction of Kingdom Halls worldwide.
What has been accomplished
since the program started?
At the end of the 2000 service year,
half of the publishers worldwide
met in suitable meeting places.
However, the other half
—approximately three million publishers—
met in places that were overcrowded
or otherwise unsuitable as Kingdom Halls.
At that time,
27,000 Kingdom Halls were needed.
By 2014,
the number of publishers meeting
in unsuitable facilities had been reduced.
But because of growth in the organization,
this still meant that 1.6 million publishers
did not have a suitable meeting place.
Since 2014,
that figure has been reduced
by 25 percent.
What accounts for this significant reduction
in the backlog,
allowing us to catch up faster
than in the past?
Part of the answer
lies in making efficient use
of the facilities we already have.
When providing food for thousands,
Jesus made it clear
that nothing should be wasted.
The LDC program applies that principle
to the seats in our Kingdom Halls.
As noted earlier,
we have 62,000 Kingdom Halls worldwide.
On average,
only 60 percent of the seats
are filled for congregation meetings.
That means that approximately three
to four million seats are empty
during congregation meetings each week.
There are a number of options
to help make better use of these seats,
which will make the use
of each Kingdom Hall more efficient.
Consider, for example,
a Kingdom Hall in an urban area.
It has 200 seats
and is used
by four congregations sharing the facility.
That means the Kingdom Hall will be in use
for four weeknight meetings
and four weekend meetings.
It would definitely appear
to be fully utilized
and suggests the need
for new construction for further growth.
However,
how many seats were in the Kingdom Hall?
Two hundred.
Multiplied by meetings
for the four congregations,
this facility has a total seating capacity
of 800 people.
Global records indicate that congregations
using this size Kingdom Hall
have an average attendance
of 120 at their meeting.
This could mean
that only 480 seats are used
by the four congregations
in this Kingdom Hall
and 320 seats remain empty
—not very efficient.
If the four congregations were redistributed
into three congregations,
average meeting attendance
for each congregation
would increase
to about 160 per meeting,
while still fitting comfortably
in that Kingdom Hall.
And this would now allow
for an open slot in the schedule,
which could be used
to meet needs in the area
without requiring new construction.
In the first three years of the LDC program,
fully utilizing our existing facilities
played a part in reducing
the backlog of Kingdom Hall projects
from 14,000 to approximately 10,000.
This saved millions of dollars.
Of course, this does not meet every need,
and there is still a significant need
to construct new Kingdom Halls
to provide suitable places of worship.
How does the branch office
make these decisions,
and how are priorities set?
All options are examined
as the Branch Committees
work with their Local Design/Construction
and Service departments.
Transportation needs
—such as distance,
opportunities for carpooling,
and availability
of public transportation—
are taken into account.
In many cases,
congregations can be sized
to make better use of available seats
in Kingdom Halls
that have already been built.
However,
when they are needed,
new Kingdom Halls can be constructed
using simple, standard designs
that make wise use of donated funds.
Of course, all of this must be done
with the big picture in mind.
It is the spiritual needs
of the congregations
that are of the utmost priority.
The structures themselves are not
the focus of these centers of pure worship,
but rather it is the people
who use the facilities.
On one occasion,
as they passed the temple,
Mark 13:1 quotes one of Jesus’ disciples
admiring the structure when he said:
“Teacher, see!
what wonderful stones and buildings!”
However,
Jesus’ reply simply indicated
that the building itself would not last.
It was people Jesus was concerned with.
Likewise,
the Kingdom Halls that we build today
will not last forever.
But these centers of pure worship
bring people together
so that we can serve Jehovah
as a united group
—and that will last forever.
Whether we assist in the construction
of the many Kingdom Halls
that are still needed
or help to renovate and maintain
existing Kingdom Halls,
it is our shared privilege
to help provide
suitable meeting places
for our brothers and sisters.
In this way,
we each support
“the faithful and discreet slave”
as they provide what is needed
so that each congregation
can praise Jehovah
in a suitable place of worship.